docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
author: Jose Solis
---

# Jose Solis-Ruiz
## solisruiz.j@gmail.com



### OHSU Knights Diagnostics Laboratory  
#### Research Data Analyst (08/11/2022 - Present)

Use Python, R, SQL in Ubuntu to support clinical and research project needs.

### OHSU Knights Diagnostics Laboratory  
#### Research Assistant II (07/15/2019 - 08/11/2022)

Using Python, R, SQL in Ubuntu to leverage clinical, pathological, ancillary, and genomic data to support diagnostic test development, research, and reporting at Knights Diagnostic Laboratory. Wrote a internal package named SoaPy to clean and transform clinical, pathological, ancillary, and genomic data.

### Bayer Crop Sciences
#### Bioinformatic Research Specialist (09/04/2018 - 03/29/2019)

Worked as part of a Bioinformatics Team to develop and annotate microbial genome assemblies. Collaborated with biologists to provide genomic and bioinformatic analysis on microbial genomes and genes using Perl, Python and R. Updated a chemical dereplication workflow and collaborated in its development into an in-house web application. Developed and documented relevant scripts/pipelines for genomic/bioinformatic use in Jupyter or R Markdown.

### Agrinos, Inc.
#### Microbial QA/QC Technician (10/16/2017 - 08/31/2018)

Performed quality assurance and quality control to produce high quality microbial products. Collaborated in research and development of microbial products. Developed a document and signature tracker using Microsoft Power Automate. Assisted in general lab operations and lab maintenance. Ensured the proper documentation of experiments, data, quality assurance and quality control documents.


### Education

Oregon State University - B.Sc  
BioResource Research ('17)  
Concentration in Biotechnology and Genomics/Bioinformatics  
Minor in Chemistry  

### Collaborations/Publications

- [Identification and prioritization of myeloid malignancy germline variants in a large cohort of adult AML patients](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0006497121015639)
- [Reproducibility of Next-Generation Sequencing Results Between Labs and Platforms](https://blogs.ohsu.edu/researchnews/2020/03/16/next-generation-sequencing-among-new-approaches-discussed-at-pathology-research-day/)


### Undergraduate Research Projects
- [Predation enhances survival and growth of pathogenic and non-pathogenic isolates of *Vibrio cholerae*](https://ir.library.oregonstate.edu/concern/undergraduate_thesis_or_projects/pr76f5133)

Commit message:

Collaboration Update
Added Post-induction Minimal Residual Disease Defined by Next-Generation Sequencing Predicts Poorer Clinical Outcomes in Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia link.

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
author: Jose Solis
---

# Jose Solis-Ruiz
## solisruiz.j@gmail.com



### OHSU Knights Diagnostics Laboratory  
#### Research Data Analyst (08/11/2022 - Present)

Use Python, R, SQL in Ubuntu to support clinical and research project needs.

### OHSU Knights Diagnostics Laboratory  
#### Research Assistant II (07/15/2019 - 08/11/2022)

Using Python, R, SQL in Ubuntu to leverage clinical, pathological, ancillary, and genomic data to support diagnostic test development, research, and reporting at Knights Diagnostic Laboratory. Wrote a internal package named SoaPy to clean and transform clinical, pathological, ancillary, and genomic data.

### Bayer Crop Sciences
#### Bioinformatic Research Specialist (09/04/2018 - 03/29/2019)

Worked as part of a Bioinformatics Team to develop and annotate microbial genome assemblies. Collaborated with biologists to provide genomic and bioinformatic analysis on microbial genomes and genes using Perl, Python and R. Updated a chemical dereplication workflow and collaborated in its development into an in-house web application. Developed and documented relevant scripts/pipelines for genomic/bioinformatic use in Jupyter or R Markdown.

### Agrinos, Inc.
#### Microbial QA/QC Technician (10/16/2017 - 08/31/2018)

Performed quality assurance and quality control to produce high quality microbial products. Collaborated in research and development of microbial products. Developed a document and signature tracker using Microsoft Power Automate. Assisted in general lab operations and lab maintenance. Ensured the proper documentation of experiments, data, quality assurance and quality control documents.


### Education

Oregon State University - B.Sc  
BioResource Research ('17)  
Concentration in Biotechnology and Genomics/Bioinformatics  
Minor in Chemistry  

### Collaborations/Publications
- [Post-induction Minimal Residual Disease Defined by Next-Generation Sequencing Predicts Poorer Clinical Outcomes in Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia](https://www.questdiagnostics.com/healthcare-professionals/clinical-education-center/conference-presentations/2022/post-induction-minimal-residual-disease-defined-by-next-generation-sequencing-predicts-poorer-clinical-outcomes-in-patients-with-acute-myeloid-leukemiag)
- [Identification and prioritization of myeloid malignancy germline variants in a large cohort of adult AML patients](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0006497121015639)
- [Reproducibility of Next-Generation Sequencing Results Between Labs and Platforms](https://blogs.ohsu.edu/researchnews/2020/03/16/next-generation-sequencing-among-new-approaches-discussed-at-pathology-research-day/)


### Undergraduate Research Projects
- [Predation enhances survival and growth of pathogenic and non-pathogenic isolates of *Vibrio cholerae*](https://ir.library.oregonstate.edu/concern/undergraduate_thesis_or_projects/pr76f5133)
